content/event/2023-09-22_coding-club-CONECT/index.md, before:

---
authors:
- matthieu-gilson
date: 2023-09-22 11:00:00
publishDate: 2023-09-19 06:00:00
draft: false
image:
  focal_point: Center
  placement: 2
  preview_only: true
projects: []
tags:
- events
title: '2023-09-22: monthly coding club by CONECT'
summary: 'Sharing advanced computational tools for neuroscience and open science'
---

* When: Friday 22th Sept ***11.00am to 12.00am***
* Where: _salle Laurent Vinay (INT)_

This is the first occurrence of monthly sessions on advanced computational tools for neuroscience and open science to occur during the [coding club](https://framateam.org/int-marseille/channels/coding-club) organized by the [NIT](https://www.int.univ-amu.fr/plateformes/nit).

> Come to share and test recent computational tools that are useful for neuromodeling, analyzing data and much more. The focus is on python packages of interest for the local neuroscientific community, both theoreticians and experimentalists.

{{% callout note %}}
To CONECT members: Propose topics at [Coding Club x CONECT](https://amubox.univ-amu.fr/f/1359219652).
And check the Mattermost channel for the schedule.
{{% /callout %}}

Commit message:

update info on optuna coding club

content/event/2023-09-22_coding-club-CONECT/index.md, after:

---
authors:
- matthieu-gilson
date: 2023-09-22 11:00:00
publishDate: 2023-09-19 06:00:00
draft: false
image:
  focal_point: Center
  placement: 2
  preview_only: true
projects: []
tags:
- events
title: '2023-09-22: Coding Club x CONECT on Optuna'
subtitle: 'Sharing advanced computational tools for neuroscience and open science'
summary: 'Coding Club x CONECT this week: Optuna'
---

* When: On Fridays at ***11.00am to 12.00am***
* Where: _salle Laurent Vinay (INT)_

This is the first occurrence of monthly sessions on advanced computational tools for neuroscience to occur during the [coding club](https://framateam.org/int-marseille/channels/coding-club) organized by the [NIT](https://www.int.univ-amu.fr/plateformes/nit).

This Friday 22th Sept, we will have a look into [Optuna](https://optuna.org/), which is a generic-purpose optimizer for hyperparameters. It combines a diversity of [modern search algorithms](https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/10_key_features/003_efficient_optimization_algorithms.html) to optimize models in a black-box fashion, namely defining hyperparameters to optimize and an objective/cost function. Check the [tutorials](https://optuna.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorial/index.html) for further information.

> COME TO SHARE AND TEST RECENT COMPUTATIONAL TOOLS FOR NEUROMODELING, ANALYZING YOUR DATA AND MUCH MORE!

The general purpose of these sessions is in line with the Coding Club on promoting open science in our daily practice. The focus of the CONECT contributions is on advanced (e.g. python, R, etc.) computational packages of interest for the local neuroscientific community, both theoreticians and experimentalists. Methodological questions like how to model specific neuronal systems and fitting experimental data are also in the scope of these sessions, with again a focus on practical tools related to simulation and analysis.

{{% callout note %}}
To CONECT members: Propose topics at [Coding Club x CONECT](https://amubox.univ-amu.fr/f/1359219652).
And check the Mattermost channel for the schedule.
{{% /callout %}}
